this next spot is a big brand new tavern
where you can sit back and relax over
some exceptional steak tips chicken
wings and massive double cheeseburgers
now all you got to do is eat here
everyone in Arlington is asking the same
question what is Menotomy means well at
Menotomy Grill and Tavern on Mass Ave it
means a lot of things world-class
cuisine craft cocktails all served in
this sophisticated setting but the word
Menotomy itself is something that leaves
customers curious so managing partner
Billy Lyons finds himself explaining the
term one customer at a time
Arlington today was once called Menotomy
Menotomy village sells in 1635 it's a
tricky word but it resonates in this
town once customers get past the name
they'd like to take in the overwhelming
atmosphere with high ceilings low
lighting and a busy bar behind the line
of the open kitchen chef Mark Thompson
uses his fine dining background to
create a sophisticated menu that blows
most taverns away I think that the
tavern concept has kind of gone out the
window and we're trying to bring that
back once you walk in here you will
realize what a true tavern is supposed
to be
so he's added upscale items like
pan-seared Atlantic salmon served with
pistachio gremolata and more casual
tavern fare like the French dip with our
zoo to create a well-rounded meal fried
pickles found their way onto the menu
because Billy's a fan of them but oddly
enough Marc had actually never tried one
right before we opened I had never even
had a fried pickle I just never had one
it was something I was absolutely gonna
have on the menu I loved it very light
batter and they're just cute little dill
chips great dish
Billy was also adamant that his mother
Edna's potato sausage stuffing made its
way onto the menu
so we asked chef Marc to recreate the
recipe alongside chicken and he got it
just right I was like all right well
what's in it and he told me it was in it
apparently I just nailed it
he was this is exactly what it is she
used to stuff the turkey when we were
growing up for Christmas and
Thanksgiving with this traditional
potato and sausage stuffing and it's
pretty amazing
one dish that's anything but traditional
is the Menotomy chicken wing you know a
lot of timer and serve buffalo wings
Frank's redhot like who the hell wants
to eat that you know what I mean it's
like played out everyone doesn't so they
came up with a zippe chipotle citrus
slather for their signature appetizer I
know that everybody has wings but I
think ours are truly unique they're
smoky they're spicy but they're not
overly spicy and then we serve it with
peppercorn ranch steak tips can be found
on flatbread with blue cheese and
caramelized onions or given a South
American spin when they're topped with
tasty chimichurri an ingredient you
don't often find in a typical Tablet
that's basically Argentinian pesto and
instead of basil it's oregano and
parsley every Tavern has steak tips so
we wanted to think a little bit outside
the box I don't know if I've had a
better steak tip anywhere the Menotomy
double cheeseburger will have you seeing
double a two-tiered treat made even
better with the addition of mark's smoky
tomato jam it's a little sweeter and a
little smoky ER and way better than
regular ketchup equally awesome are the
house smoked st. Louis ribs coated in a
guava barbecue sauce these sticks of
deliciousness are cooked low and slow
makes the meat fall off the bone you can
literally just scrape it off with a fork
the creative menu continues right
through dessert with a selection so
strangely delicious customers can't
believe their ears the tres leches cake
with guava whipped cream and chipotle
lime popcorn not only sounds
over-the-top it tastes amazing too
people hear it and they're kind of like
what are you talking about and then the
server will be like Oh trust me eat it
and then they get it and they're just
blown away
I think it's as unique and as amazing a
dessert as I've had in years
he took the traditional dish and just
took it over the top with the guava
whipped cream
and popcorn please come try it with
decades of combined experience you can
be sure plenty of passion has gone into
every last detail of Menotomy